packages/route/README.md, before:

# @talon/route

> encode/decode data to/from routes

# API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

- [encode](#encode)
  - [Parameters](#parameters)
  - [Examples](#examples)
- [decode](#decode)
  - [Parameters](#parameters-1)
  - [Examples](#examples-1)

## encode

encode data into a route

### Parameters

- `route` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** a route `/with/:params`
- `data` **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** keys will replace the `/path/:param`

### Examples

```javascript
const [path, data] = Route.encode("/api/v1/:id/items/:name", {
  id: 1,
  name: "keyboard",
  limit: 20
});
```

Returns **[array](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)** `[path, data]` lefover data is returned as the second element in the array

## decode

decode data from a path

### Parameters

- `route` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** a route `/with/:params`
- `path` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** from which to extract `data`

### Examples

```javascript
const { id, name, limit } = Route.decode(
  "/api/v1/:id/items/:name",
  "/api/v1/1/items/keyboard?limit=20"
);
```

Returns **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the `data` extracted from `path`

Commit message:

chore(docs): update docs
affects: @talon/route

packages/route/README.md, after:

# @talon/route

> encode/decode data to/from routes

# API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

- [encode](#encode)
  - [Parameters](#parameters)
  - [Examples](#examples)
- [withQuery](#withquery)
  - [Parameters](#parameters-1)
  - [Examples](#examples-1)
- [decode](#decode)
  - [Parameters](#parameters-2)
  - [Examples](#examples-2)

## encode

encode data into a route

### Parameters

- `route` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** a route `/with/:params`
- `data` **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** keys will replace the `/path/:param`

### Examples

```javascript
const [path, data] = Route.encode("/api/v1/:id/items/:name", {
  id: 1,
  name: "keyboard",
  limit: 20
});
```

Returns **[array](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)** `[path, data]` lefover data is returned as the second element in the array

## withQuery

encode data into a route, include the querystring

### Parameters

- `route` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** a route `/with/:params`
- `data` **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** keys will replace the `/path/:param`

### Examples

```javascript
const path = Route.withQuery("/api/v1/:id/items/:name", {
  id: 1,
  name: "keyboard",
  limit: 20
});
```

Returns **[array](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)** path including the querystring

## decode

decode data from a path

### Parameters

- `route` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** a route `/with/:params`
- `path` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** from which to extract `data`

### Examples

```javascript
const { id, name, limit } = Route.decode(
  "/api/v1/:id/items/:name",
  "/api/v1/1/items/keyboard?limit=20"
);
```

Returns **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the `data` extracted from `path`
